Topic- UPI/ Online Payment Fraud
A UPI (Unified Payments Interface) fraud is an online form of cybercrime where a scammer deceives their victim into sending them money or providing them with sensitive banking information. UPI fraud has increased in frequency as the number of online transactions has also risen.
A typical UPI fraud scheme occurs in a sequence of steps. First, the fraudster will contact the victim via phone call, text message, email or through an online marketplace. They may represent themselves as a buyer, a bank, or customer service from another online company, and create a sense of urgency and/or build trust before they request that the victim send them money through a fake payment request or QR code. The victim will then be instructed to accept the payment request or scan the QR code to receive payment; however, instead of receiving a payment, the victim unknowingly approves a payment to the fraudster. The fraudster may also request the victim’s OTP or login information to access the victim’s bank account.
People who are targeted by UPI fraud generally include students, small businesses, and individuals with little or no knowledge of digital payment systems. Consequences of UPI fraud include immediate financial loss, compromised bank account information and emotional anxiety. Getting back the money that was lost through UPI fraud can be extremely difficult and very time consuming.
This case shows that it is important to be aware and cautious when using digital payment systems. Remember that you do not have to enter a PIN or approve a payment to receive money.
